# The Injury Problem Tearing Through the NFL

This data narrative (hosted at https://azhou76.github.io/nfl-injuries/) analyzes the impact of non-contact lower-body injuries on the careers and livelihoods of NFL players and proposes a potential fix to reduce the prevalence of these injuries.

The narrative was created as the final project for the DATA 1500 course at Brown University under the instruction of Reuben Fischer-Baum. The dataset used in the first and final visualizations comes from the NFL 1st and Future, which is the NFL's annual Super Bowl competition aimed at improving player health, safety, and performance. The 2020 analytics competition, from which this dataset originates, specifically includes three different CSVs with injury, play, and advanced analytics data of 250 NFL players over the course of two consecutive seasons. The second visualization's yards/game and Pro Bowl selection data comes from Pro Football Reference and the injury data comes from Draft Sharks. Finally, the third visualization's data comes from Secrist et al.'s paper titled The Financial and Professional Impact of Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injuries in National Football League Athletes.

In terms of images used in this project, the background photos for sections "The Money" and "The Fix" come from Giants.com, the background photo for the opening title comes from Ewing Cole, and the background photos for the section "The Stars" come from CBS Sports (A.J. Green), North Jersey Record (Odell Beckham Jr.), and Sky Sports (Dez Bryant). The leg used in the first visualization was taken from Adobe Stock images, and the headshots used in the second visualization's interactive components come from Player Profiler (A.J. Green), IMDb (Odell Beckham Jr.), and Pro Football Focus (Dez Bryant).
